OSDOCS-9112: Added tagging requirements for subnets for ROSA with HCP (#72192)
openshift/openshift-docs: modules/rosa-hcp-vpc-subnet-tagging.adoc

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * rosa_hcp/rosa-hcp-sts-creating-a-cluster-quickly.adoc
:_mod-docs-content-type: PROCEDURE
[id="rosa-hcp-vpc-subnet-tagging_{context}"]

> == Tagging your subnets

Reviewer: ```suggestion
= Tagging your subnets
```

> Before you can use your VPC to create a {hcp-title} cluster, you must tag your VPC subnets. Cluster services verifies that these resources are tagged correctly before allowing you to use these resources. Your resources should be tagged as the following:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Before you can use your VPC to create a {hcp-title} cluster, you must tag your VPC subnets. Automated service preflights verify that these resources are tagged correctly before allowing you to use these resources. Your resources should be tagged as the following:
```

> Before you can use your VPC to create a {hcp-title} cluster, you must tag your VPC subnets. Automated service pre-flight checks verify that these resources are tagged correctly before allowing you to use these resources. Your resources should be tagged as the following:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Before you can use your VPC to create a {hcp-title} cluster, you must tag your VPC subnets. Automated service preflight checks verify that these resources are tagged correctly before you can use these resources. The following table shows how your resources should be tagged:
```

[cols="3a,8a,8a", options="header"]
|===
| Resource
| Key
| Value

| Public subnet 
| `kubernetes.io/role/elb``	
| `1` or no value

| Private subnet 
| `kubernetes.io/role/internal-elb`	
| `1` or no value

|===

[NOTE]
====

> You only need to tag one public and one private subnet.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You need to tag at least one public, if applicable, and one private subnet.
```

> You need to tag at least one public subnet, if applicable, and one private subnet.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
You must tag at least one private subnet and, if applicable, one public subnet.
```

====

.Prerequisites

* You have created a VPC.
* You have installed the `aws` CLI.

.Procedure

> . You can verify the tags currently on your subnet by running the following command:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
. Verify the tags currently on your subnet by running the following command:
```

+
[source,terminal]
----
$ aws ec2 describe-tags --filters "Name=resource-id,Values=<subnet-id>"
----
+
.Example output
+

> [source,terminal]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[source,text]
```

----
TAGS    Name    <subnet-id>    subnet  <prefix>-subnet-public1-us-east-1a
----

> . You tag your resources in your terminal by running the following commands:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
. Tag your resources in your terminal by running the following commands:
```

> .. For public subnets:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
.. For public subnets, run:
```

+
[source,terminal]
----
$ aws ec2 create-tags --resources <public-subnet-id> --tags Key=kubernetes.io/role/elb,Value=1
----

> .. For private subnets:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
.. For private subnets, run:
```

+
[source,terminal]
----
$ aws ec2 create-tags --resources <private-subnet-id> --tags Key=kubernetes.io/role/internal-elb,Value=1
----

.Verification

> . You can verify that the tag is correctly applied by running the following command:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
. Verify that the tag is correctly applied by running the following command:
```

+
[source,terminal]
----
$ aws ec2 describe-tags --filters "Name=resource-id,Values=<subnet_id>"
----
+
.Example output
+

> [source,terminal]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[source,text]
```
